# Investigating the Impact of Monetary Rewards on Choice Behavior, Decision Making and Risk Management

What biological and social mechanisms influence our decision-making processes, such as the choices we make for our money management, and can a better understanding of these natural and social phenomena improve our finances? In this project, I investigated risk decisions and their implications for financial professionals such as investors, traders, or brokers. I am using the Choices13K data set, an open data source retrieved from GitHub that is among the largest human decision response on risk-choice problems datasets with at least 13,000 responses.

In this study, the participants participated in a series of experiments where they faced two options to gamble: a risk-averse or risk-seeking gamble. Each gamble had a different set of possible outcomes. For example, if they chose Gamble A, there was a certain probability of a 100% chance of a $0 return (risk-averse); however, if they chose Gamble B, there was a lottery outcome with a 50-50% chance of winning or losing $100 (risk-seeking). My research question studies if and how participants' responses to the risky-choice problem contrast when there are known probabilities (certainty) versus unknown probabilities (ambiguity and lottery).

I use neuroscience, psychology, and biology to investigate the underlying processes that impact decision-making in the context of financial decisions and risk management. In the neuroscience discipline, I investigated how desire activates our neural reward system and dopamine system, which influences the limbic system and neocortex where some of decision-making occurs. The field of psychology demonstrates that behavioral biases and behavioral finance protocols help researchers observe how emotions and pleasure-seeking approach vs. loss aversion approach impact decision-making. And lastly, within the study of biology and decision-making, I studied interoceptive abilities and genetics, such as testosterone, and how the levels of each explain the nuances of financial decision-making. In my methodology, I perform a t-test, logistic regression, and a correlation matrix to respond to my research question.
